Certification Project

Project Statement

Industry: Life Sciences

Problem Statement:
GenNext is a Life Sciences company which wants to explore the data on drugs generated by Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
They have asked you to create dashboards through which you can visualize the drugs consumed across locations,
compare the effectiveness of drugs and identify the company that has the drugs with lower side effects.
The Vice President of the GenNext Life Sciences company wants the dashboards with the following details:

Dashboard 1: Adverse events occurred due to drug consumption across locations and companies

Dashboard 2: Drug comparator

Dashboard 3: Adverse events across multiple parameters

The dataset can be accessed from the LMS.

(Refer to the dataset: FAERS DATA.csv)

For Dashboard 1, create the following charts: -

1. A Chart that shows the total events occurred across countries.
2. A Histogram that shows the event distribution by age groups.
3. A Chart that shows the events occurred across different age groups.
4. A Chart that shows the events occurred by gender and highlight the gender that was impacted the most in United States.
5. A Chart that demonstrates the profession which reported the most events across the globe.
6. A Chart that demonstrates the outcome of the event, and the number of deaths in India as a result of the adverse event.
7. A Chart that demonstrates the mode of consumption of drugs and the dosage amount.
8. Create a filter on country and company and make it interactive by having the country chart as the main chart.

For Dashboard 2, create the following chart: -

A Comparative Chart, through which the user should be able to compare the effectiveness of drugs and identify the company
that has the drugs with lower side effects. Here, the user can select two companies and drugs and make a comparison on the effectiveness of drugs.

The chart should show the following details:

1. Total outcome by taking the drug (Death, Life threatening etc).
2. Location-wise adverse events.
3. The event distribution by age and gender.
4. The event distribution by age group.

For Dashboard 3, create the following charts: -

1. A Chart displaying the total number of cases reported.
2. A Chart displaying the number of cases reported based on age group and gender.
3. A Chart showing the number of cases recorded where the gender was Male.
4. A Chart showing the number of cases recorded where the gender was Female.
5. A Chart displaying the Top N Companies based on cases.
6. A Chart displaying the Top N Drugs based on cases.
7. A Chart displaying the Top 20 Drug Reactions based on cases (Use Pt field present in the dataset).
8. Plot an image displaying various human body parts.

Once the dashboards are ready, create a story from the dashboards for presenting it to the management.
Publish the project on Tableau Online that will be reviewed by the stakeholders. Set the permissions to the users according to the roles they have
i.e. Publisher, Viewer, etc.
